# My Datahouse Take Home Project
### Aloha I'm Joshua Samonte, I am a Junior studying Computer Engineering at UH Manoa and I am here to walk through my code for this project
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
## Task
This take home project we were tasked an open ended assignment where we were given a team of 3 people, all of which having different scores for 4 different skills; intelligence, 
strength, endurance, and spicy food tolerance. We were also given 3 applicant's that had scores for the same 4 skills. This was given as a JSON file. Essentially our task was to take the array of both the team members and applicants, score the applicants based on their compatability with the team, and give an output with the applicant and their score. This should be returned in a JSON file.

## Scenario
Mentioned above, this was an open ended question and we as the devolpers were allowed to score the compatibility however we pleased. The first thing I asked myself was what was the purpose or goal of this team. Since there was none given, I made one up. This team of ours is competing in the "National Math, Power Lifting, Relay, Spicy Food Eating Contest". With the goal of creating the best team we can I chose to focus on the culmination of two things, the best score and balance/synergy of the team. So I scored the applicants on 1/2 of how much they increase the overall score of the team and 1/2 on how much balance it brings to the team. Focusing on the balance of the team is important because say each member is only good at one thing, though the score may be good, when it's too lopsided there is no synergy in the team. So this is what the premise of my code was based on.

____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
## Explaining My Code
### Setting the Data
&ensp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Now time to talk about my code. I apologize in advance for all of the commented out print statements, I figured I just leave everything in there to show how I think and go through the process. So assuming we were given a JSON file like the one in the pdf with the instructions, my code first imports the "json" module through the line "import json". I then used "with open" to open the json file I named "practice.json". "r" meaning read mode and set it to variable f. From here I used json.load(f) to have whatever is stored in practice.json and set data to it. 

### Team Data
&ensp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; This next part of the code I created 4 variables Intel, Strength, Endurance, and SpicyTol to store the total value of those skills from the team that is given. As you can see in the for loop, I iterate through the array in the key for "team". Here I am able to call the subarrays for each memember of the team, essentially adding all of the scores for each skill up. This helped me to understand where the needs of the team may lie and where we should focus to improve on.

### Applicants
&ensp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; This is the main part of the code. I created 3 arrays, "scoresT" to hold total score of the team if that applicant member is added, "scoresB" to hold the score of the balance the applicant would provide, and "names" to hold the applicant names. From here I created a for loop to loop through the applicants instead of the teams like above. I made a second variable for each skill. This is to hold the value of the teams score for that skill plus the applicants score for that skill. Each time it iterates it resets each skill to the original team total for that skill. I then use this itereation to fill the array with the names of the applicants since we will need it later.

 &ensp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; From here I made a variable Total2 and set it to the combined skills' scores to get the new total of this skill. Then I divided this total by the orignal total and subtracted one from it to get the percentage increase of the score. I added this to "scoresT" array. Now this part is going to get a little confusing. So now that we established the increase in score, we need to account for the balance. The way I approached this was I took that total score and divided it by 4 (the amount of skills). To understand why I did this lets imagine a graph. Lets say that intelligence is in the +y direction, strength is in the +x direction, endurance is in the -y direction, and spicy food tolerance is in the -x direction. To be balanced would mean that each direction would go out the same amount. Creating a circle if you connected all the points. So best case senario would be if they were all the same length. Essentially what I did here was once I found the optimal value, I took the difference of the actual value and the optimal value and divided it by that optimal value. this gave me how much the value differed from that optimal value. Now I subtracted each score from 1 to get the percentage in decimal of how similar the two values were. Since there were 4 skills I multiplied each similarity by .25 and added them together to get that score. Each itteration it appended these values into the "scoresB" array. 

&ensp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Now I created an array called "ScoreTot" to keep the offical scores of the applicants. I madea while loop that took the value from "scoresT" and multiplied it by .5 and added it to the value from "scoresB" multiplied by .5. I then rounded the values to 2 decimal places.

### Returning File
&ensp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; Last part of the assignment was to put the info back into a JSON file which includes the name and the score of each applicant. To do so I modeled the output example given in the instruction PDF. I made a dictionary called "DicTot". This dictionary had one key called "scoredApplicants" with an array for it's key. Next I had needed to pair the name of the applicant with their score. To do so I made a for loop that iterates through the elements in "names" and "ScoreTot". The zip file is a function that is able to combine the elements from the two arrays into pairs of tuples. Here the variable name was set to the element of names and the same for score and the element of ScoreTot. Now I stored the name and score of the applicant into a dictionary called applicants where I formatted based ont he pdf. Then I appended each applicant into the key of "scoredApplicants" within "DicTot". Lastly I used "with open" again and created a file called "result.json" but this time in write mode. I then used "json.dump" with an indent of 5 to write the data into the "result.json" file. 